The universe speaks in many languages, but only one voice.
The language is not Narn, or Human, or Centauri, or Gaim or Minbari
It speaks in the language of hope
It speaks in the language of trust
It speaks in the language of strength and the language of compassion
It is the language of the heart and the language of the soul.
But always it is the same voice
It is the voice of our ancestors, speaking through us,
And the voice of our inheritors, waiting to be born
It is the small, still voice that says
We are one
No matter the blood
No matter the skin
No matter the world
No matter the star:
We are one
No matter the pain
No matter the darkness
No matter the loss
No matter the fear
We are one
Here, gathered together in common cause, we agree to recognize this
singular truth and this singular rule:
That we must be kind to one another
Because each voice enriches us and ennobles us and each voice lost
diminishes us.
We are the voice of the Universe, the soul of creation, the fire
that will light the way to a better future.
We are one.
It was the end of the Earth year 2260, and the war had paused, suddenly and unexpectedly. 
All around us, it was as if the universe were holding its breath . . . waiting. 
All of life can be broken down into moments of transition or moments of revelation. This had the feeling of both.
G'Quon wrote, There is a greater darkness than the one we fight. It is the darkness of the soul that has lost its way. 
The war we fight is not against powers and principalities – it is against chaos and despair. Greater than the death of flesh is the death of hope, the death of dreams. Against this peril we can never surrender. 
The future is all around us, waiting in moments of transition, to be born in moments of revelation. 
No one knows the shape of that future, or where it will take us. We know only that it is always born in pain.
This is how the world ends, swallowed in fire... but not in darkness. 
You will live on – the voice of all our ancestors, the voice of our fathers and our mothers, to the last generation. 
We created the world we think you would have wished for us. 
And now we leave the cradle for the last time. 
The future is always changing. We create the future, with our words, with our deeds, and with our beliefs. This is a possible future, Commander. And it is my hope that you may yet avoid it
She's done it, hasn't she? She's in there. We told her to wait. 'The prophecy will attend to itself,' we told her. Now we are committed to the path.
It is our belief that every generation of Minbari is reborn in each following generation. Remove those souls, and the whole suffers. We are diminished. Over the last two thousand years, there have been fewer Minbari born into each generation. And those who are born do not seem equal to those who came before. It almost as if our greater souls have been disappearing. At the Battle of the Line, we discovered where our souls were going. They were going to you. Minbari souls are being reborn, in part or in full, in human bodies.
The Council knew that our people, and yours, were not ready for this information. It could unravel our entire society. So we could not tell our generals the reason for the surrender. We had all memory of the examination erased from Sinclair's mind, and we let him go. It has been our secret. Now it is yours.
I told them, Delenn, as I was ordered. I only wish I could have told them the rest: about the great enemy that is returning, and the prophecy that the two sides of our spirit must unite against the darkness or be destroyed. They say it will take both of our races to stop the darkness. I am told that the Earthers will discover all this, soon enough, on their own. I hope they are right. Because if we are wrong, no one will survive our mistake.
You are touched by darkness, Ambassador. I see it as a blemish that will grow with time. I could warn you, of course, but you would not listen. I could kill you, but someone would take your place. So, I do the only thing I can. I go.
Well, take this, for what little it will profit you. As I look at you, Ambassador Mollari, I see a great hand reaching out of the stars. The hand is your hand. And I hear sounds – the sounds of billions of people calling your name.
The bearer of this message is one of my rangers. Some are Minbari. Most are humans. They have been drawn here to learn to work together and prepare for the fight ahead. They are my eyes and ears. Where you see them, you see me.
I wish I could tell you more . . . . I wish I could warn you. But the others don't think it's time yet. Stay close to the Vorlon, and watch out for shadows. They move when you're not looking at them.
Very soon now, I will be going into darkness and fire.
I do not know if I am fated to walk out again.
If it is your choice to come with me, then I could not wish for a better or braver companion
